We will let you start off with some introductory comments and then we can keep those to several
minutes. We can go into questions from others. Thank you.
Kia ora. Thank you very much. As we've appeared in front of you a couple of times in the last
six months, my intention is really in my opinion remarks to briefly bring to your attention
a few highlights and obviously leave the rest of the time for questions. Before I do that,
I want to take the opportunity to introduce you as with me. So on my left, Deputy Commissioner
Dr Vanessa Corrill, Vanessa's responsibility is for the operations team and she has the
delegations for mental health and addictions and prisoner complaints. On my right, Rose
Wall groans as the Deputy Commissioner for Disability and also has the statutory delegations
for decision-making and maternity health as well as mesh complaints and for the past
10 months, Rose has also been managing the aged care files. Natata Davidson in the
rear is our Chief Advisor and is often starter and will help us with some of the tricky
questions when they arise. So just turning to some of those highlights. Firstly, clearing
the backlog of open complaints and proving the timeliness of our process has been our
focus particularly in the context of funding reduction. We've streamlined our process
considerably and in 24-25 we increased our number of closures by 40%. Over the past 15
months we have reduced our number of open complaints, so our backlog by 50%, and we
have a clear backlog plan to close the older files within our system. We are
consistently closing more complaints than we have received for the first time since
2015 with a clearance rate currently of about 117%. This has allowed us to reduce
the number of files aged over two years by 52% in the past 15 months.
Approximately 80% of our complaints are closed in six months and current forecast
suggests that by the end of 2026 we'll be in the position to close incoming
complaints requiring a formal investigation within 18 to 24 months which we
consider to be an appropriate time frame given the complexity of those
complaints and given that that is a quasi-judicial process. The Committee
will be pleased to hear that on the 30th of March we implemented our new
digital case management system. Our staff, given it's only been four weeks, are still
in the process of learning to navigate that system that we anticipate that it will
embed and deliver further efficiencies. I'm very proud of my team for
achieving these results in the context of ongoing increase in complaints volume
and the reduced funding this year. Currently complaints volumes are sitting
around about 12% higher than the previous year. Complaints tend to reflect
people's concerns around constrained and delayed access to care, poor
communication in the context of those delays and difficulties navigating a
constrained and complex system. In terms of our role in quality improvement
in 24-25 we made 809 recommendations with a 91% compliance rate. As the
Committee may be aware our previous aged care commissioner resigned in
August 2025. Erin James has recently been appointed to that position in
early April so she's only a few weeks into the role and we'll be working
closely with Erin to establish her priorities and recommendations for the
sector to improve the quality of care for older people. I've taken note of
the Committee's recent reports into HDC's resourcing and the petition
into the establishment of a patient safety commissioner. I accept that
unexpected increases in complaints volume in the context of constrained
resources have had an impact on our ability to undertake rapid systemic
inquiries and I acknowledge the select Committee's concerns about this. Such
inquiries are an ongoing focus for me and as we clear our backlog I will be
exploring ways in which we can do this more effectively within the current resources.
In the meantime HDC has worked hard to leverage the things and complaints
for quality improvement through the publication of the matter reports.
These reports seek to amplify consumer voice and make associated recommendations
for improvement. We have recently released a report on the experience of
disabled people in the context of residential care settings. We're about
to release another report on the experience of disabled people in the
health sector and we have focused on the experience of disabled people
noting the inequities that that population does suffer as well as the fact
that we have a unique jurisdiction and that we cover both the health and
disability sectors and we've been very pleased by the response of the
relevant agencies to our recommendations from those reports. Happy to talk
more about those as we go through. And finally an ongoing focus for me is
on ensuring the sustainability of the community. I'm going to
focus for me is on ensuring the sustainability of the advocacy service.
Under the HDC Act HDC through its director of advocacy is required to
contract on behalf of the Crown an advocacy service. The contract
currently sits with the National Advocacy Trust. The advocacy service
plays an important role in supporting complainants to resolve their concerns.
They also reduce demand on provider complaints processes and resolve low
risk complaints so that HDC resources can be focused on those complaints
that require our intervention. However, static funding of that service
and that's funded through our baseline has reduced in recent years and
sorry the size of that has caused the size of the service to reduce in
recent years and currently we're concerned about the multiple geographical
gaps in that service. So I'll be looking in the coming year to see how
we can address those concerns. That concludes my opening remarks
and I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you very much for those open
remarks. Can I? Thank you. I've just got a question regarding your
recommendations and the following of them or compliance with them.
How many sort of, how many complaints feed into a
recommendation? Have you got some situations where you've had one
complaint that's led to a recommendation? Have you got ones that have got
a thousand complaints? What's the sort of measures on that? And then I've got
a follow-up question. Okay, so whenever we receive a complaint,
particularly if it comes into our system, so it tends to be that the
more serious complaints or complaints on which we need to seek information,
we will always consider the potential for quality improvement from those
complaints. So on individual complaints, we can make both educational
comments, suggestions for improvement and all
recommendations. So recommendations can either be made
on those complaints that don't proceed through to a formal investigation.
If we see a cluster of complaints, we
often leverage previous complaints where recommendations have been made
to re-emphasise existing recommendations.
And for example in our thematic reports, we were looking at complaints
trends. We use the complaints trends to
identify appropriate recommendations and make
them to the appropriate agencies. I also want to make clear that we
analyse the responses to our recommendations very closely.
And if we're not satisfied that they've been complied with, we will engage
with the provider to make sure that the risk to which those recommendations were
directed have been appropriately mitigated.
That's interesting. So you've got actually more scales than just making a recommendation.
Have you got a rip in this report? I didn't see a rip. So educational comment
measure of how many of those you've put out versus how many, what was it,
suggestions for improvement? Is there a measure of that?
I don't have the exact numbers on that. I'm turning to my chief advisor because she is.
Roughly. So roughly we make around about 800
recommendations a year, which are the ones we follow up on. And then there's probably
an additional, I would say, around 300 complaints upon which we make
what we call educational comment, which is where we're
making one that you could reflect on your communication.
And is there a suggestion slash comment or a suggestion another scale above?
Suggestion is actually another scale. How many levels do you get?
Again, I think there's probably encapsulated in the educational
comments, but there is certainly some data that we could follow up. And then
the next question that was once you've made the recommendation that
you've got 91% compliance, you've said you've made the talk to the
agencies. I mean, you guys are kind of the police force in a way. Who's the
prosecuting agency? Sorry, can you... Well, you guys are kind of the police force.
You've found the thing and said this is a recommendation that we often do
and 91% are followed from that 9% that aren't.
You've got in here about some of the steps you have taken.
So, where's the teeth in that? Does it go? Does it have to get
political enforcement? Can you make
issues go to the ministry that then come down from another
direction? What do you do at that point? I think it's really important to understand the reasons
why recommendations might not be complied with. So, in the first instance
there may be practical reasons. Things may have changed since we made the
recommendation, which make it more difficult for the provider to complete
the recommendation that we've suggested. In those cases, as I said, we engage
with the providers to see whether there needs to be modification to the
recommendation or in the terms of recommendation. For those complaints where we don't
receive a response, for example, we have the option of
naming the provider, which is taken quite seriously by providers,
and we can escalate to the regulatory bodies. So,
for example, if they're a registered provider, we can
take the non-compliance recommendations to the regulatory authority who can take action on that.
Who's that? So, for example, if it was a doctor, we could raise
a non-compliance with recommendations to the medical council. Thank you.
Can I go to a primary? Oh, you've got us up? Yes, sure.
Can you, I see
in the report, 809 was the number of
recommendations made, and a 91%
response rate for the year 24-25 years in your
annual report. So, on the ones that are not
followed, how often would you
identify that
the regulatory authority needs to, responsible authority needs to be
contacted about a practitioner?
I'm just trying to think of the, so we know that of the 66,
those that were not complied with included
66 recommendations made across 37 complaints
in evolving 34 providers, which included
17 individuals. I'm sorry, I don't
currently have the...
Sorry, can you please come up to the microphone?
The individual
might not comply, because they've actually retired.
So, it might be that after the recommendation was made to that
individual to undertake training, they then retired from the
workforce. That's the primary reason. I think what I'm trying to
get at, Mr Chair, is it's very helpful, because we've had questions about this issue
at committee before. So, it's helpful to have it
presented this way, that the number, the compliance rate, that's useful.
But is this a one-off analysis done for this annual report?
Or would you be aware across multiple years,
if the same practitioner was coming up with recommendations
against them, and is there
a process by which you initiate action? Absolutely.
We always look to see what previous complaints have been made
against providers as soon as the complaint comes in.
So, we do monitor that. We also have, and I'm sure that our
digital case management systems is going to assist us, that we
analyse the recommendations really carefully. And if there is
repetitive non-compliance, we could also potentially
consider reopening a Right 10
inquiry, which is around the importance of responding
to complaints, the right to have a proper complaints process
and, of course, as I said, we've previously named providers
as well as a consequence of failure to comply. And that
is taken quite seriously by the providers concerned.
Vanessa, did you have anything further on that? Not as, so far as individual
providers concerned, but just to pick up on
Morag's earlier point, that we do assess
the number of complaints for providers on receipt of
a complaint. And we do have agreements with regulatory
authorities in relation to a threshold of a number of
complaints in any given period of time would trigger us
to immediately advise, for example, the medical council
that we have received that number of complaints.
Thank you.
Thanks, thank you. And you mentioned during your opening
statement that you've cleared the backlog by 50%.
So, noting that, and also in your report, there's
25% of opening complaints are older than
24 months. How many of those are older than three years?
Five, another, of those 23%,
5% are over three years.
So, obviously, you've increased the number of complaints
closed quite drastically. What has changed
to lead to that closure rate increasing?
So, there's been a number of
steps that we've taken. There's been structural change. So we made,
we had a leadership restructure.
We've focused on looking at where there have been bottlenecks in our system
and we've streamlined the complaints process.
We've looked at ways to increase performance internally.
We've increased training opportunities for our staff
as well. I'm just trying to look, and I'll hand it to Vanessa
because she has been managing the backlog. And we've got a clear
backlog plan against which we measure accountability
at any point in time. So we have, there's been
some very concerted effort, particularly because we
are obviously concerned about not just the number of cases on hand, but the delays
in the system. I mean, what role do you
think your new IT system is going to play? I didn't quite catch that.
What role do you think your new IT system is going to play?
I think it's going to, once again, improve
our processes in terms of producing duplication or replication of
processes. I think it's going to have a really important role to play
in terms of communication with our complainants and our providers
in the context of more automated responses, whereas previously
that was not possible under our old system.
It's also going to have a very significant impact, I think, in our ability to report on our data.
So we're going to be able to mine data more easily.
Next slide, please.
Help me understand your definition of the backlog and therefore
as observers of complaints and reports on complaints,
we might see people's experience change. So
are you measuring
the backlog as from the time of receipt to the time of reporting
and therefore does the very small number of complaints over
three years mean that we'll cease seeing reports
from, I think I read one from 2022
just the other day. So can you help me understand
what we should expect to see? So I think firstly
providers have already reported back to us that they've seen significant improvement
in our turnaround of our early resolution files.
Their complaints, which we can do immediately back to the provider
to resolve to our advocacy service.
So we've virtually got no backlog in that space. We're able to turn those around
really quickly. There is unquestionably a situation
where we're currently working through our older complaints at 2022 files. We're working on
our 2023 files and so on.
And that has resulted therefore in increased
numbers of those older complaints
being closed and therefore being more publicly available, I guess.
We expect that by the end of this calendar
year we will have
exclude all our 2023 files.
That's correct isn't it? And return to a business
usual state and I think it's about the time frames within which you could
expect a complaint to be resolved and as I said in that more
serious end that's 18 to 24 months.
In the standard experience of someone complaining to the
system, we see that isn't it the more serious end? What would
their time to resolution be? Or time to a report being
published? We're currently closing 80% within six months in our early resolution
space. But there obviously are complaints that we bring
into the system that we seek more information on. So that accounts
probably for another 20%.
And we would expect to close those
in probably within nine to 12 months. Is that correct?
Six to nine months and we have kept that.
So part of the backlog elimination plan was to
avoid another backlog occurring with the incoming complaints.
So since July 2 last year we have kept to
all incoming complaints have met those
time frames. So closure for our assessed complaints
is non-investigation complaints within that period of
six to nine months and investigations within 18 months.
Okay. Jenny, are you a primary or a
sub? A sub. Okay, go for it.
I'm just interested. Thank you very much. In the complexity of
complaints you've been receiving, has there been an increase
in the number of more? Are you seeing
some of the more complaints coming through in the last
12 months? Again, you sort of cut
out a bit there. So you're wanting to know whether there's been a change in the profile of the
complaints that we're seeing? Yes. Any greater complexity
in complaints coming through? I think in the past
a few years it would be fair to say, given the complexity of
the provision of healthcare, so multi-disciplinary approaches to
healthcare, there has unquestionably been I think a rising
complexity and new models of provision of care as well. So for example
telehealth, we're seeing some emerging issues
in telehealth provisions, some of which we do have concerns about, for example
internet prescribing of medications in the absence of having
clinical notes or knowing comorbidities or other medications that the person
is on. In terms of the demographic of complaints
though, actually the demographic is moving
in accordance with what we've previously seen. So in terms of, say for example
GP practice, they're still sitting roughly at about 30%
of the complaints that we receive, likewise Health New Zealand
at about 40%. What we have
seen is an increased number of complaints
relating to delay and access
to medication and around that.
Alright, Cam, you had a primary? Yeah, thank you.
I just got a quick... Then Kahu and then I should as well.
Well, I'm not entirely sure this is in your scope, so that's why I just want to ask. Do you do
complaints about under-service? Do you deal with complaints that are deemed to be
sort of, this is supposed to be, you've been contracted
as an entity or a group to provide our service
provided to the contract level? How much
do you take in complaints? Or where, if not you, where does it go
if someone is concerned that they're not getting a level of service that a
group has been contracted to do? Yes, we do
and so in the context where we are
aware that under-service, I mean we
measure care against the code of rights. Okay. So if a person
isn't receiving a reasonable standard of care, that's potential
non-compliance with right for, we look to the reasons
why that is the case and we would make recommendations. So for example
of Health New Zealand has contracted a particular service
and we're concerned that a level of care hasn't been provided
in accordance with the reasonable standard of care, we will alert that to Health New Zealand.
And so would, like, how many
of these concerns about under-delivery on a contract
are you discovering and alerting Health New Zealand
or other contracting services for? And I'm sure
this is the case, but is it the only case that you're getting these from complaints? So are you getting them
from complaints then you're finding under-delivery
of contract? And then who are you saying that to?
You're saying that to Health New Zealand, are they monitoring their own contracts?
Absolutely. And we escalate
concerns too. So if we had an immediate concern about
a safety concern under-delivery which was causing harm,
we would escalate that immediately and follow that up.
So we do... Not so much about the safety, but are people actually
not providing, so an area might have one provider for a contract and that's not getting
delivered in opposed to the contract. That would seem like a health
issue, it would seem like a safety issue, broadly, that that contract's not being delivered.
I guess I'm asking, like, when you find waste, forward and abuse, are you reporting
that in a structure that we could, as parliamentarians, see
that there's this much waste, forward and abuse happening in the health contracting system?
Are you individually putting that to Health New Zealand and other
contracting agencies? How does financial waste, forward and abuse get reported?
Hmm.
So you're talking about financial wastage in the context of
contracted service provision? Well, I'm asking, what do you do with that
information when you find it? I'm assuming you do find it.
Moira, could I add a bit more? Certainly we'd understand the
experience, an individual's experience, so if a provider was
to support 15 people and one of those people
complained to us about their experience, we'd know about that. We wouldn't know if
14 other people didn't receive this contracted service that
they should have. So we'd be able to contribute
in one perspective, but not in that other. So do you have a final
question, if there may? Do you have a sort of sister
commissioning agency that provides waste, forward,
commissioner that looks at waste, forward and abuse that you can talk to
that you've got an open line of communication with, that
contract's not being delivered on, contracted, being reported to?
Or is that relying on the contracting
entity, the Health New Zealand Ministry, health to look into?
It's reliant on the contracting entity. Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
I want to talk about the complaints made and you talked about different demographics, so
GPs, other services. Do you
have the data around like
breaking those down so and to say, maternal
very post-natal health, youth
mental health seniors, do you have
though that sort of data and if you do, has there been
an increase in any specific area of complaints
in that 24 to 25 period?
Do you collect ethnicity data, age data
from our complaints, forms?
By the way, we are going to be in a much better position
to report on that now that we have this new system.
I would say that we haven't seen any noticeable increases
that have caused us concern to raise issues
in any particular demographic. I'm going to turn to Natasha in a moment.
That said, we do see things
in complaints. Even if it might be one or two complaints,
we think actually there's an issue here and we need to raise it.
And it's unfortunate. So I think last time I was here, there was mention around, for example,
youth line and issues that we saw
in terms of risk to
youth as consequence of concerns that we had around risk
escalation in clinical governance. I'm just going to check with Natasha.
Have we got any? No, you're right. So our data is really largely qualitative
because it's people's experience, right? So
there hasn't been, we do have a close eye on numbers.
So there hasn't been a spike necessarily in any area.
But what we do pay close attention to is the themes and where we
so whether an issue, there's been an increase in an issue. So for example, delays
or in certain service areas where we've seen recurring
things that is also of concern to us. Thank you.
And so in those recurring themes
areas, do you then break it down into
things like wait times? Like that's where that's broken down. Awesome.
So I'm getting it. Yes, that's correct. And then
do you do any forecasting in terms of
where the data is actually
quantitative and it's going into looking at the
increased crisis with youth mental health.
And then looking at how many people are actually complaining
and saying, hmm, actually maybe the young people
don't know about this complaints process and what advocacy can we do
to then get them to have this service.
So part of advocacy would be making sure that people know that they can
do it. And I know the ombudsman has done a lot of that work.
So yeah, so I guess that's a too long question. It's about
making do you see what's
happening out there. So for example, with the maternal mental health
peri-imposonatal mental health
and youth mental health.
And then sort of forecast what you could expect and then look at
actually what you are getting. It would be fair to say that we do
very closely monitor what's happening, not even just in
terms of our complaints data. So you can actually see issues arise
through the media. Other agencies might bring them to our attention as well.
We don't necessarily forecast, but we can
monitor and I completely agree with you. Part of the
issue is also identifying those populations that don't complain to us.
That's actually personally, as commissioner, I do
find that quite concerning. And you look to see how can we
improve the advocacy or education for those communities.
We do rely on advocacy service in the current
environment to do a lot of the networking. And they do
thousands of networking opportunities a year
focused on particular priority populations and educational
sessions as well. In the context of our funding constraints
we have had to make a strategic decision to focus on our
complaints resolution rather than our education and promotion
duties because they are statutory duties.
That said, we also, we do look for opportunities
and we engage with other agencies
for them to raise issues with us. For example, recently I met with the
Children's Commissioner, for example. Thank you. And so
I really appreciate your work. It's so important.
So just so I understand
in terms of say legislation that might be coming
through, do you do any forecasting and do
ministers reach out to you or do you advocate to
ministers or ministries around what you're seeing
and where improvements might need to happen? Probably a good example
of that was the passage of the End of Life Choice Act because we knew
that when that legislation was coming into force that HDC had a
specific role to manage complaints in that space.
As it happened, we didn't receive as many
complaints as we had anticipated that we might.
That said, we were very closely, particularly at the time that the act came
into force with the relevant agencies and we continue
obviously as required under that legislation to report to the
registrar on the complaints that we are seeing. And
continually in our quarterly reports to the ministry and minister
highlight those kind of issues. Fantastic. So did they ever reach out to you?
Please come through the chair. Oh, I'm so sorry. Could I please have two more supplementaries?
Turn off subs. Keep them concise.
It's a good challenge. Absolutely.
So has there been
particular wait time and delay to access
complaints around maternal
mental health and around youth mental health?
Access issues specifically, maternal mental health.
And like wait lists? Wait list times?
Not that I'm aware of in terms of complaints.
The maternity complaints tend to relate to the provision of care. Wonderful.
Thank you. That does feature that often in
maternity complaints there are multiple issues and there may be a feature of
maternal mental health but that's not normally the
main feature of the complaint. Sure thing. And in terms of
forecasting, you've talked about budget constraints
having an impact on the complaints that are coming in. Have you done any
forecasting for this financial
year from 2425 into
2627 around what you are expecting
with budget constraints? We've obviously been doing
some budget planning but we feel confident
that we can maintain our current level of service in relation to
our complaints resolution. Thank you so much. And that's in the context too
of increasing complaint volume. Incredible work.
Thank you. Dr Vera. Thank you.
Thanks for your remarks in your opening statement recognizing
the need to take up more systemic inquiries.
You mentioned the MATIC reports. Book us through
the difference, please. And then
going back to the systemic issues, where do you think
you'd like to
where is the potential scope for your next investigation to go?
The MATIC reports we rely on our existing data to look
at what the common themes we are seeing
in the complaints data that we have. So we've done the two disability reports
we are anticipating that we may do one on maternity services
later in the year and we're considering also mental health report as well.
So that's looking at the existing data and looking at opportunities
to make recommendations on that data based on the themes
that we're seeing. We also do commissioner
initiated investigations. I think I mentioned that in my last appearance.
And that might be on one complaint but it might be on a cluster of complaints
where we look to see whether there are any
and firstly resolution for complaints themselves but also
looking at often systemic issues that may have
contributed to the events that gave
rise to the complaint. I think in terms of future
we have been quite thoughtful about where you might
look to broader systemic inquiries
going forward. I think what we would need to do
is develop some kind of matrix to identify
the priorities in the health sector. I think at the moment
if you were to do a systemic issue looking
more broadly across the whole of New Zealand, one of the biggest issues
would be in and around resource constraints, the constraint system,
workforce issues. And that's
all kinds of
provision of service. So it might be ophthalmology, it might be gynecology, it might be
surgery or cancer care. So it's quite
difficult to work out where you focus it but that's something we are going to consider.
Thank you. And one of the
discussions relevant to a petition the committee received is
let's say
under resourcing that you just mentioned as an example.
Well, understaffing might
feature quite prominently in
complaints. So that also raises a number of
regulatory and resourcing things which traditionally
aren't the subject of your reports in a systemic inquiry. Is that the sort
of information you can go into or not?
Well, whenever we look at a complaint in these issues around
for example staffing levels or resourcing constraints within the
system that they service that we're looking at,
we can make comment on those and in fact I have escalated
concerns. Let's take ophthalmology, I raised concerns with the minister
about service level, where demand
was outstruck in capacity at the ophthalmology service at Waitaha, Canterbury
because it was having a direct impact on consumers
and there was the potential harm to be caused to them. I can't influence
or I try to influence funding decisions but ultimately funding
decisions rests with the minister but what I can do is tell the patient
stories and identify the potential harm that flows
in the context, in that particular context and then
I follow up with recommendations to see what is being
done about the resourcing constraints in that particular service.
Thank you.
My second primary, Mr Chair,
small number of complaints that you received but sadly still too many will be
the sexual exploitation of patients by practitioners.
Can you explain the HDC's role in
that and what I'm particularly interested in is
how many fora a complainant needs to go through
in order to get resolution, is it correct that they go for the
HDC, the director of prosecutions and then the human rights review tribunal?
It really depends.
So for example with the, with
sexual boundary violations associated with
regulation providers, we, particularly
for example, let's take doctors have been referring
those complaints to the medical council, for example, because they have systems
in place to manage essentially a conduct issue
relating to a doctor. But we also manage
unregulated providers and
Vanessa will be able to speak to this. We've had a few complaints relating to unregistered
councillors. We conduct those investigations
and if we've determined the breach and
we've determined the breach seriously enough, we refer it to the director of proceedings.
The director of proceedings has an independent role
to determine whether or not to bring, they can't bring
disciplinary proceedings for unregulated providers, they can only go to the human rights review tribunal.
The director of prosecute proceedings in this
context is a officer
who's been put up under the same act that the HDC is.
How long would that take for a person to go through that process?
Well at the moment they do tend
so obviously we'd need to go through the investigation
process and under the current system we would hope that we would prioritize
that kind of complaint and we would look to have that closed
as quickly as possible but as I mentioned before, at which time would be
18 months to 2 years, then
there needs to be an independent decision made by
the director of proceedings. If she was
to issue proceedings before the human rights review tribunal, there are
delays in that system at the moment. I can't tell
you what those delays are but I understand they are considerable.
And just the other version of that process that you
mentioned where it's a
professional that the complaint is against is a regulated profession.
That's right.
In that instance, does the complaint actually effectively have no
time with the HDC because it's referred straight to the responsible authority?
Yes, that's correct. And the responsible authority
then decides if they take a prosecution.
That's right. Thank you.
Thank you, Mrs. Chair.
I look at your annual report. One of the major
or common issues for complaint is on communication.
68%. So what advice have you given to
the ministry or given to the system to try to improve in this area?
Communication is something we raise
constantly with providers, not just through
the reports that we issue, but
whenever we're in a situation where we're giving education
to providers as well. It features
in the online provider modules that we have available to
providers who can access for training
in that respect. We comment on it
often. There are specific issues in relation to informed
consent. So for example, we have roughly 16 to 18% of complaints
relate to informed consent. And effective communication
is part of those rights. It's right five.
You have a right to effective communication so we can comment on things such as
the environment in which communication occurred,
the English as a second language issues and
how to interpret it for people with disabilities,
need for supported decision making and having supports present.
So we do regularly raise these issues.
Can I just give a brief example? One example is a common issue for a long time
was people not getting expected time frames for treatment
from Health New Zealand. So we did work with Health New Zealand on
the letters that they were sending out to patients to give
indication of when they could expect changes in wait times etc.
But do you see this improvement in this area?
If you look back the past five years, this is the percentage of
the company still pretty much the same or you see this improvement
in communication in this sector? It's actually
stayed relatively static and seems statistic. Something we are seeing
and I actually also think you see it in a pressured system. When people
are pressured for time, they may not necessarily have the time
to engage as you might if you had
more time. We see that in relation, for example,
same day consent where because of
pressures within the system, there's more often consenting processes
happening at the time on the day of the procedure
with consequences that sometimes the communication is not as good
as one might have hoped for. But it's something we will continue
to raise concerns about.
Communication is also what drives complaints. So the reason people
usually complain is that something went wrong in their care
and in the context of that thing going wrong, they were poorly communicated with.
One more primary?
One more primary. Just first.
Thank you very much.
I'm interested to know, do you do any data
comparison with other countries? How does New Zealand sit in terms of
how much is our system complained about
for how people feel poorly treated or whatever?
Are we at the bottom of the OECD, like we are for medicines
access, or where is that
place that New Zealand sits on that international scale?
It's a really good question. In fact, it's quite hard to do international comparison
because we have quite a unique system.
For example, the passage of the
Code of Consumers Rights into law was a global first and in fact it's a very
unique piece of legislation
in the context of the New Zealand environment. Likewise
we have ACC, and that is also unique, which has
an impact on how the medical and legal environment works.
I do have communication with the Australian commissioners, but once again
it's very hard to compare data because the system is and their jurisdiction is so
different. They have greater, while we manage unregulated
providers, in Australia a lot of their complaints are managed through
the regulatory authority APRA, which is the
broader regulatory authority over registered health providers.
I do engage with the Australian commissioners, but it's very hard
to compare the data and to make those direct comparisons
about whether we're worse or better than other systems.
It's often said that the ACC
system and the context of how we manage complaints
is a good system comparatively
to the Tejas systems which exist in other jurisdictions.
Thank you.
Good answers. Good question. One more. One more.
You just want to quick touch on the promotion and education.
Obviously I see on your annual report you also achieve over
6000 people are viewing your online, your right video.
So I'm just wondering, what platform you use to promote this
video and do you think only 6000 people only feel that video?
Is it achieved the goal you want to do to raise the perfect
awareness of their right?
Thank you Dr Chung. I would love to be doing a promotion
of the code, but the reality is that in the context of
our backlog and our current complaints volume, we have got to focus our
resources on managing those complaints. As I said before
we are very reliant on our advocacy service to do that promotion
and to do that education. Have had the number of
contacts on that particular video being
at a level which we would like? Obviously we would like more.
I think it was certainly a first for HDC. I think we need to look as we
move to a business as usual state. I think we need to look really carefully
because we want people to understand their rights. We want
people to be able to manage their complaints with the providers and we want
people to access us if they are not getting the resolution that they need.
So I think there is a lot more work to be done here and I think
we should be looking too at more platforms to
increase people's understanding of their rights. Is those patients
charged from the hospital will look at the video before or
would they just volunteer and look at your website and find a video? It's largely
a big part of the industry I think and also as I said
our advocacy service can help to promote that.
You will be aware from your own, I would hope that you would be aware from
your own experience as a consumer that whenever you go to your healthcare provider
there is often our poster on the wall which
highlights the rights that people have and
the relevant collateral which tells you how to get in touch with us or our advocacy
plans managed or your concerns managed. Thank you. The video
was playing in weight rooms as well. You know on the
screens at a lot of the hospital weight
rooms and GP services that hasn't been
able to be supported this year but that's another area we can look to
revisit once finances allow. Thank you.
Thank you very much for your time today.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.